# Module 2

## Family Schedule

### The Harris Family

These are the Harris. The Harris family is a family of four. Bob and Sandra Harris are married. They have two kids, a girl and a boy. Their daughter's name is Collette. Their son's name is John. 

**Bob**: My wife's name is Sandra. Our daughter's name is Collette.

**Sandra**: My husband's name is Bob. Our son's name is John.

**Comprehension check**:  

* who is John and Collette's mother?  

  Their mother is Sandra. 

  *who is somebody ?*

* How many children do their Harris have?

  They have two children.

  how many something do ?

* who is John's sister?

  Collette is John's sister.

### Bob and Sandra	

**Bob**  Bob works at the post office. He works five days a week Monday through Friday. His day starts at 6:45 in the morning. He eats breakfast at 7:15. He leaves for work at 7:45. He usually drives his car to work. It takes an hour for him to get to the post office. He comes home around 6:30 in the evening.  He eats dinner with his family between 6:45 and 7:15. He usually reads the newspaper after dinner. After reading the newspaper, he watches TV. If the TV isn't interesting, he reads a book or listens to music.  He goes to bed until 11:00.

**Sandra** Sandra is a musical teacher, she is piano teacher. Her schedule changes each day.  She gives piano lessons three days a week. She teaches for two hours on Mondays from 2:30 to 4:30. On Wednesdays, she teaches form 3:00 until 6:00. On Thursdays, she teaches in the evening from 7:00 until 10:00.  She gives lessons in her home in a little studio. Some of her students are not very good. 

**Comprehension check**:

* when dose he leave for work？

  He leaves for work at 7:45.

* How dose he get to work?

  He usually drives to work.

* what time does he usually get home in the evening?

  He comes home around 6:30 in the evening.

* True or False, he usually reads the newspaper before dinner?

  That is right, after dinner, Bob reads the newspaper.

* when dose he go to bed?

  He goes to bed until 11:00.

* True or False, she teaches for three hours on Wednesdays.

  On Wednesdays, she teaches form 3:00 until 6:00. 

* Does she give lessens in the morning ?

* Does she give lessons in her home?

  She teaches at her home.

### Collette and John

**Collette** Collette is a student. She goes to high school. She gets up every morning at 6:30. She eats breakfast with her family at 7:15. She leaves for school  at 8:00. She goes to school by bus. It takes about twenty minutes. Her first class begin at 8:45. After school, she usually comes home and practices the violin. She has a violin lesson once a week. Her lesson is at 4:30 on Tuesday afternoon. It last for an hour.  On other days, she comes home after school. She practices the violin for about an hour. In the evening, she studies. She usually does her homework for about two and a half hours from 7:45 to around 10:15. After finishing her homework, she takes a bus.  She usually goes to bed around 11:00.  

**John** John is a high school student. He is two years younger than his sister Collette. She is eighteen. He is sixteen. John is interested in gymnastics. He practices everyday. He gets up at 6:15 every morning. Then he takes shower. He eats breakfast with his family at 7:15. He leaves for school at 7:30. He drives to school on his motorbike. It takes about fifteen minutes to get to school. From 8:00 until 8:30, he practices gymnastics at school.  His class started at 8:45. After school, John practices gymnastic until 5:00. He gets home about 6:00. After dinner, he studies hard. He goes to bed between 10:30 until 11:00. Sometimes, he dreams about the Olympics. He wants to win a gold medal. Someday, he wants to be a gymnastics coach. 

**Comprehension check**

* when does Collette leave for school?

  She leaves for school at 8:00

* How does she get to school?

  She goes to school by bus.

* Is her violin lesson on Tuesday or Thursday？

* when does she usually take a bus?

* How old is Collette's brother?

* when dose he eats breakfast?

* what dose he do from 8.00 until 8:30?

* what does he do at 7:30?

## Matrix Vocabulary

### Vocabulary Practice

**These are four seasons**. **Spring** . This is the season of birth and growing. This is the time when flowers bloom. **Summer**. In summer, the days are long and the nights are short. Summer is the best time to go swimming. **Autumn**. Another name for autumn is fall, this is the season between summer and winter. In autumn, the leaves begin to fall. **Winter**. In winter, it is the coldest time of the year. Be careful. Don't catch cold. This is the coldest season in the year.

**Times of day. Here are times of day.** **Morning**. This is when the sun rises and birds begin to sing. The day begins. People get up and go to work in the morning. **Afternoon**. Many people are at work in the afternoon. Afternoon is between the midday and sunset. The sun is high in the sky in the afternoon. **Evening**. This is when the sun set and sky is beautiful. People leave work and return home in the evening. The sun goes down in the evening. **Night**. The sun is gone and people are sleeping. We can see many stars in the sky at night. It is time to sleep, don't work too late. 

**Weather conditions. Here are four types of weather**. **Sunny**. The sunny is shining. Sunny days are warm. This kind of weather is good for a picnic. **Cloudy**. The sun is behind the clouds. Cloudy days are usually cool. **Rainy**. It is raining. Rainy weather is bad for picnics. When it is raining you need an umbrella. **Snowy**. When it is snowing, you need a warm coat. Snowy weather is cold. 

**Times of life. These are the times of life.** **Birth**. Babies are small and cute. Our life begin at birth.  **Childhood**. When we are children, we go to school. Childhood is  when we learn to read and write. Children go to school. **Adulthood**. Many man and women work hard and have a career. Most adults get married and have a children. **Old age**. These are the last years of our lives. This is a good time for hobbies and other interest. Old people have lots of experience.